# Final exam project for the Data Science F24 course
## About
This repository contains the code associated with the exam project for the Data Science F24 course at the Cognitive Science MSc, Aarhus Universitet. For questions, please contact Alina Kereszt (202005328@post.au.dk).

## Structure
The repository is structured in the following way:
- **/data:** Folder for data files. Data needs to be acquired via application and is not contained here. 
- **/plots:** Contains the output figures generated by the scripts.
- **/src:** Contains all the scripts associated with this project.

## Data provenance
The data used in this project originates from Phase 1 of the Assessing Nocturnal Sleep/Wake Effects on Risk of Suicide (ANSWERS) study. The ANSWERS dataset contains confidential data and is therefore available only upon request through the website of the National Sleep Research Resource: https://sleepdata.org/datasets/answers.

## Use instructions
### Prerequisites
This code was written and executed in the UCloud application's Coder Python interface (version 1.85.2, running Python version 3.10). UCloud provides virtual machines with a Linux-based operating system, therefore, the code has been optimized for Linux and may need adjustment for Windows and Mac.

### Running the code
1. Clone this repository somewhere on your device. 

2. If you do not already have access to the data, acquire it from the following address: https://sleepdata.org/datasets/answers. If you have access to the data, place it into the ```/data``` folder.

3. After ensuring that you are in the correct directory in the terminal, create a virtual environment and activate it:

        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get install python3-venv
        python -m venv path_to_folder/venvs
        source venvs/bin/activate
   
4. Install the required packages:

        pip install -r requirements.txt

5. Ensure that you are in the correct directory and run the preprocessing script:

        python3 src/1_preprocess.py

5. Ensure that you are in the correct directory and run part 2 of the analysis:

        python3 src/2_run_models.py

6. All outputs can be found in the ```/plots``` folder.
